175 employee vs contributor (#318)
Meeds-io/whitepaper: en/0-intro.md

Reviewer: The current work market is inefficient due to high transaction costs and persistent conflicts of interest between employers and employees

## Abstract

> Today’s work market lacks efficiency because of high transaction costs[^1][^2][^3] and frequent conflicts of interests between the employer and the employee.

Reviewer 2: Replace efficiency with competence

> The current work market is inefficient due to high transaction costs and frequent conflicts of interest between employers and employees. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The present work market is inefficient due to high transaction costs and frequent conflicts of interest between employers and employees. 
```

Reviewer 3: Replaced current with present

> The current work market is inefficient due to high transaction costs and frequent conflicts of interest between employers and employees. 

Reviewer 2: persistent can used instead of frequent

> The current work market is inefficient due to high transaction costs and persistent conflicts of interest between employers and employees. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The present work market is inefficient due to high transaction costs and persistent conflicts of interest between employers and employees. 
```

> The World of Meeds (WoM) proposes a new paradigm to address these issues by reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It's a digital space that bridges the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organization by bringing a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The World of Meeds (WOM) proposes a new paradigm to address the issues by reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It is a digital space that bridges the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organization that brings a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.
```

> The World of Meeds (WoM) proposes a new paradigm to address these issues by reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It's a digital space that bridges the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organization by bringing a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The World of Meeds (WoM) proposes a new paradigm to address these issues by reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It's a digital space that connects the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organization by bringing a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.
```

> The World of Meeds (WoM) proposes a new paradigm to address these issues by reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It's a digital platform that bridges the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organization by introducing a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The World of Meeds (WoM) proposes a new paradigm to address these issues by reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It's a digital space that bridges the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organization by bringing a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.
```

> The World of Meeds (WoM) proposes a new paradigm to address these issues by reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It's a digital platform that bridges the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organization by introducing a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.

Author: > This sentence structure provides a more concrete description of what the "World of Meeds" is- A digital platform. It explicitly defines what WoM is and What it aims to achieve.

Thanks @Sallybit  but that's exactly why I changed the sentence. You're commenting on the red sentence while I seek comment on the green...

The WoM (World of Meeds) proposes a new paradigm for reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It bridges the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organisation by proposing a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.
The World of Meeds (WoM) proposes a new paradigm to address these issues by reducing transaction costs and reinventing working relationships. It's a digital platform that bridges the gap between traditional companies and new forms of organization by introducing a fair and transparent incentive system that realigns the interests of all parties.

## Introduction

> The work market today is broken. It fails to satisfy both workers and employers.

Reviewer 7: I feel it is more appropriate to replace "broken" with the term **dysfunctional.** BROKEN is ambiguous in the sense that it could equally mean disintegration of the work market, which does not perfectly portray the current failing state of the work market.

Author: @Amby01 no need to comment on red sentences. The red sentences are those that are being replaced by the green ones. 
Hence, the proposed change has already got rid of the "broken" term.

> The current state of the work market fails to satisfy both workers and employers[^1][^2][^3]. 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
The current state of the work market fails to satisfy both employees and employers concurrently [^1][^2][^3]. 
```

Reviewer 8: I feel that the context will sound more corporate with the word "employees" rather than workers and "concurrently" will add more sense to the it

Author: a reason why we are making this change is to look less corporate.

> The current state of the work market fails to satisfy both workers and employers[^1][^2][^3]. 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
The present state of the work market fails to satisfy both workers and employers[^1][^2][^3]. 
```

The current state of the work market fails to satisfy both workers and employers[^1][^2][^3]. 

> On the employee side, it is difficult to find the right jobs. The job market favors certain types of individuals, leaving great skill sets behind. This comes from a set of human biases – racial based, gender based, handicap based, introvert based etc. The work market also lacks transparency as to the available positions and employment conditions.

Reviewer 7: Th term "employee" describes one who is WORKING for an organization, business firm or company. These set of people have found their jobs already. I prefer it should be replaced with the term "JOB SEEKERS"

Author: > The term "employee" describes one who is WORKING for an organization, business firm or company. These set of people have found their jobs already. I prefer it should be replaced with the term "JOB SEEKERS"

No. @Amby01  In this sentence, we're referring to the people already hired to do some work for the employer (organization). We're not referring to the problem of finding a job. The goal is this whole pull request is to expand from traditional employment model problems to expand to other forms of work relationship. Hence we later introduce  the term "contributor" to encompass :  employees, contractors, freelances,  independents contributors, or even volunteers

Additionally, there is a lack of transparency in available positions and employment conditions. Once employed, workers often have little say in their work hours, workplace, content, or methods. Moreover, there is a perceived lack of fairness in compensation rules due to the lack of transparency surrounding them. Career progress and compensation depend on the immediate manager's good faith and objectivity, leading to a lack of trust and cooperation. 

Employers, on the other hand, experience difficulties at sourcing talent and hiring the right skills and the right fit at the right time for the job. There is no objective way to ascertain the potential hire’s skills or source people outside of the employer’s traditional hiring pool.
Employers face challenges in sourcing talent, hiring the right skills, and fitting them into the right jobs at the right time. The traditional hiring pool often fails to provide an objective way to determine a potential contributor's skills. High turnover rates and a lack of contributor loyalty can also increase hiring and onboarding costs. 

> Employers also deal with the lack of loyalty from their employees and a high turnover, both of which, increase hiring and on-boarding costs.

Reviewer 10: The current job market is not very efficient due to the presence of high transaction costs and frequent conflicts of interest between employers and employees. This means that it can be expensive and time-consuming to carry out job-related activities, and there are often disagreements or competing interests between those who hire workers and the workers themselves.

> Employers also deal with the lack of loyalty from their employees and a high turnover, both of which, increase hiring and on-boarding costs.

Reviewer 4: 'The lack ot loyalty' should changed to 'inconsistency'.

Author: @godwinkelvin91 read this : https://builders.meeds.io/portal/meeds/activity?id=comment17444

All of these issues boil down to high transaction costs and the exacerbated agent-principal problem[^4]. Despite the evolution of job markets towards more unity and transparency with the internet, transaction costs[^5] still need to be lowered without an objectivity element. 

Moreover, employers also face low engagement in their existing employees, leading to low creativity, productivity and innovation. The latter inflicts all the more damage in today’s economy requiring more skilled creative work.
The WoM offers a unique approach to decentralized work, which aims to address several issues prevalent in traditional work paradigms.

All of the above boil down to high transaction costs and the exacerbated agent-principal problem[^4] :
Through its transparent, objective, and decentralized incentive paradigm, the WoM aligns the interests of contributors and employers sustainably. It proposes ways to flatten hierarchies and open up ownership, promoting sustainable ways to operate and create value for organizations.

> - With Internet, job markets did evolve towards more unity and transparency thanks to job posting sites, career sites, etc. But transactions costs are still too high in the absence of objectivity element.

Reviewer 11: A few mistakes that I think it is necessary for corrections.

With the Internet, job markets did evolve towards more unity and transparency thanks to job posting sites, career sites, etc. However, transaction costs are still too high in the absence of an objectivity element.

> By bridging the gap between traditional corporations and newer organizational models like DAOs[^6], the WoM provides sustainable ways to operate and create value for all. As a decentralized venture, the WoM gains value exponentially as more people use it. Therefore, we have designed its protocol as a public good with built-in mechanisms to encourage long-term interest and avoid cartelization. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By connecting the gap between traditional corporations and newer organizational models like DAOs[^6], the WoM provides sustainable ways to operate and create value for all. As a decentralized venture, the WoM gains value exponentially as more people use it. Therefore, we have designed its protocol as a public good with built-in mechanisms to encourage long-term interest and avoid cartelization. 
```

> By bridging the gap between traditional corporations and newer organizational models like DAOs[^6], the WoM provides sustainable ways to operate and create value for all. As a decentralized venture, the WoM gains value exponentially as more people use it. Therefore, we have designed its protocol as a public good with built-in mechanisms to encourage long-term interest and avoid cartelization. 

Reviewer 12: Following R. Coase’s works, most economists link the concept of enterprise with the necessity to mitigate transaction costs. Internet and more recently, blockchain and web3 opens exciting possibilities in lowering transaction costs everywhere, reinventing economy and in particular reinventing the enterprise. The first DAOs started this process focusing on lowering the cost of transactions for capital sourcing and governance. The WoM aims at pushing this logic further by lowering the cost of work transactions. It proposes a decentralized world where jobs and skills matching could be done objectively, quickly and globally.

By bridging the gap between traditional corporations and newer organizational models like DAOs[^6], the WoM provides sustainable ways to operate and create value for all. As a decentralized venture, the WoM gains value exponentially as more people use it. Therefore, we have designed its protocol as a public good with built-in mechanisms to encourage long-term interest and avoid cartelization. 

The first DAOs flatten the hierarchies and open ownership. The WoM pursues this logic by reinventing rather than suppressing the employer/employee relationship. It introduces a transparent, objective and decentralized reward paradigm, that would sustainably align the employer and the employee interests.

> Finally, the WoM bridges the gap between corporations and the DAOs. On one hand, it introduces traditional corporations into the decentralized world through an easy to apply engagement rewarding paradigm, complementing their compensation systems. On the other hand, it proposes sustainable ways to operate and create value for DAOs. Ultimately, the WoM could be among the first mainstream applications to democratize the use of the blockchain for every company and every employee – including non-digital ones.

Reviewer 13: Replace the word ultimately with " in conclusion".

> The WoM is an open paradigm that welcomes active, authentic participation from everyone.

Reviewer 14: To foster active, authentic participation in the WoM paradigm, it's crucial to create an inclusive environment where diverse perspectives are valued.
